Added (homotopy) Pushouts and Cocones, and some features/examples of said. (#418)
the1lab/1lab: src/Homotopy/Pushout.lagda.md

Susp→Pushout-⊤←A→⊤ N = inl tt
Susp→Pushout-⊤←A→⊤ S = inr tt
Susp→Pushout-⊤←A→⊤ (merid x i) = commutes x i

Pushout-⊤←A→⊤-to-Susp : ∀ {A} → Pushout A ⊤ (const tt) ⊤ (const tt) → Susp A
Pushout-⊤←A→⊤-to-Susp (inl x) = N
Pushout-⊤←A→⊤-to-Susp (inr x) = S
Pushout-⊤←A→⊤-to-Susp (commutes c i) = merid c i
```

So we then have:

```agda
Susp≡Pushout-⊤←A→⊤ = ua (Susp→Pushout-⊤←A→⊤ , is-iso→is-equiv iso-pf) where
```

<details><summary> We then verify that our two functions above are in fact
an equivalence. This is entirely `refl`{.Agda}, due to the noted
similarities in structure.</summary>
```agda
  open is-iso

  iso-pf : is-iso Susp→Pushout-⊤←A→⊤
  iso-pf .inv = Pushout-⊤←A→⊤-to-Susp 
  iso-pf .rinv (inl x) = refl
  iso-pf .rinv (inr x) = refl
  iso-pf .rinv (commutes c i) = refl
  iso-pf .linv N = refl
  iso-pf .linv S = refl
  iso-pf .linv (merid x i) = refl
```
</details>

## The universal property of pushouts

To formulate the universal property of a pushout, we first introduce **cocones**.
A `Cocone`{.Agda}, given a type `D`{.Agda} and a span:

~~~{.quiver}
\[\begin{tikzcd}
	A & C & B
	\arrow["f"', from=1-2, to=1-1]
	\arrow["g", from=1-2, to=1-3]
\end{tikzcd}\]
~~~

> consists of functions `i : A → D`{.Agda} & `j : B → D`{.Agda}, and a homotopy
> `h : (c : C) → i (f c) ≡ j (g c)`{.Agda}, forming:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
consists of functions $i : A \to D$, $j : B \to D$, and a homotopy
$h : (c : C) \to i (f c) \is j (g c)$, forming:
```

<!--
```agda
open import 1Lab.Prelude

open import Homotopy.Space.Suspension
```
-->

```agda
module Homotopy.Pushout where
```

# Pushouts {defines="pushout"}

Given the following span:

~~~{.quiver}
\[\begin{tikzcd}
  C && B \\
  \\
  A
  \arrow["g", from=1-1, to=1-3]
  \arrow["f"', from=1-1, to=3-1]
\end{tikzcd}\]
~~~

> The **Pushout** of this span is defined as the higher inductive type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **pushout** of this span is defined as the higher inductive type
```

presented by:
```agda
data Pushout {ℓ} (C : Type ℓ)
                 (A : Type ℓ) (f : C → A)
                 (B : Type ℓ) (g : C → B)
                 : Type ℓ where

> ```
> 
> Two functions `inl`{.Agda} and `inr`{.Agda}, that "connect" from `A` and `B`:
> 
> ```agda

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  inl : A → Pushout C A f B g
  inr : B → Pushout C A f B g

> ```
> 
> And, for every `c : C`, a path
> `inl (f c) ≡ inr (g c)`{.Agda}:
> 
> ```agda

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

  commutes : ∀ c → inl (f c) ≡ inr (g c)
```

These combine to give the following:

~~~{.quiver}
\[\begin{tikzcd}
	C && B \\
	\\
	A && {\rm{Pushout}}
	\arrow["g", from=1-1, to=1-3]
	\arrow["f"', from=1-1, to=3-1]

> 	\arrow["{\rm{inl}}", from=1-3, to=3-3]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	\arrow["{\rm{inr}}", from=1-3, to=3-3]
```

	\arrow["{\rm{commutes}}"{description}, shorten <=6pt, shorten >=6pt, Rightarrow, from=3-1, to=1-3]
	\arrow["{\rm{inl}}"', from=3-1, to=3-3]
\end{tikzcd}\]
~~~

> ## Suspensions as Pushouts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Suspensions as pushouts
```

> First, recall the `Susp`{.Agda}, which serves to increase the
> connectedness of a space. Suspension can be expressed as a
> `Pushout`{.Agda} of, for some type `A`, the span `⊤ ← A → ⊤`{.Agda}:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [[suspension]] of a type $A$ can be expressed as the `Pushout`{.Agda}
$\top \ot A \to \top$:
```

~~~{.quiver}
\[\begin{tikzcd}
	C && \top \\
	\\
	\top && {\rm{Pushout}}

> 	\arrow["{\rm{const\,tt}}", from=1-1, to=1-3]
> 	\arrow["{\rm{const\,tt}}"', from=1-1, to=3-1]
> 	\arrow["{\rm{inl}}", from=1-3, to=3-3]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	\arrow["{!}", from=1-1, to=1-3]
	\arrow["{!}"', from=1-1, to=3-1]
	\arrow["{\rm{inr}}", from=1-3, to=3-3]
```

	\arrow["{\rm{commutes}}"{description}, shorten <=6pt, shorten >=6pt, Rightarrow, from=3-1, to=1-3]
	\arrow["{\rm{inl}}"', from=3-1, to=3-3]
\end{tikzcd}\]
~~~

<!--
```agda
const : {A B : Type} → A → B → A
const t _ = t
```
-->

There is only one element of `⊤`{.Agda}, and hence only one choice
for the function projecting into `⊤`{.Agda} - `const tt`{.Agda}.

If one considers the structure we're creating, it becomes very
obvious that this is equivalent to suspension - because both of our
non-path constructors have input `⊤`{.Agda}, they're indistiguishable
from members of the pushout; therefore, we take the
`inl`{.Agda} and `inr`{.Agda} to `N`{.Agda} and
`S`{.Agda} respectively.
Likewise, we take `commutes`{.Agda} to

> `merid`{.Agda}, as our functions `f`{.Agda} and `g`{.Agda} can only
> be `to-top`{.Agda}, so it reduces (with a suitable element of `C`{.Agda})
> from `∀ c → inl (f c) ≡ inr (g c)`{.Agda} to `inl tt ≡ inr tt`{.Agda},
> or equivalently `inl ≡ inr`{.Agda}.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`merid`{.Agda}.
```

> We therefore aim to show:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

```agda
Susp≡Pushout-⊤←A→⊤ : ∀ {A} → Susp A ≡ Pushout A ⊤ (const tt) ⊤ (const tt)

> ```
> 
> The left and right functions are therefore trival:
> 
> ```agda

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Susp→Pushout-⊤←A→⊤ : ∀ {A} → Susp A → Pushout A ⊤ (const tt) ⊤ (const tt)
Susp→Pushout-⊤←A→⊤ N = inl tt
Susp→Pushout-⊤←A→⊤ S = inr tt
Susp→Pushout-⊤←A→⊤ (merid x i) = commutes x i

Pushout-⊤←A→⊤-to-Susp : ∀ {A} → Pushout A ⊤ (const tt) ⊤ (const tt) → Susp A
Pushout-⊤←A→⊤-to-Susp (inl x) = N
Pushout-⊤←A→⊤-to-Susp (inr x) = S
Pushout-⊤←A→⊤-to-Susp (commutes c i) = merid c i
```

So we then have:

```agda
Susp≡Pushout-⊤←A→⊤ = ua (Susp→Pushout-⊤←A→⊤ , is-iso→is-equiv iso-pf) where
```

<details><summary> We then verify that our two functions above are in fact
an equivalence. This is entirely `refl`{.Agda}, due to the noted
similarities in structure.</summary>
```agda
  open is-iso

  iso-pf : is-iso Susp→Pushout-⊤←A→⊤
  iso-pf .inv = Pushout-⊤←A→⊤-to-Susp 
  iso-pf .rinv (inl x) = refl
  iso-pf .rinv (inr x) = refl
  iso-pf .rinv (commutes c i) = refl
  iso-pf .linv N = refl
  iso-pf .linv S = refl
  iso-pf .linv (merid x i) = refl
```
</details>

> ## The universal property of a pushout, via Cocones

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## The universal property of pushouts
```

> To formulate the universal property of a pushout, we first introduce the **Cocone**.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To formulate the universal property of a pushout, we first introduce **cocones**.
```

A `Cocone`{.Agda}, given a type `D`{.Agda} and a span:

~~~{.quiver}
\[\begin{tikzcd}
	A & C & B
	\arrow["f"', from=1-2, to=1-1]
	\arrow["g", from=1-2, to=1-3]
\end{tikzcd}\]
~~~

consists of functions:
<!--
```agda
module _ (A B C D : Type) (f : C → A) (g : C → B)
  (i' : A → D) (j' : B → D) (h' : (c : C) → i' (f c) ≡ j' (g c))
  where
```
-->
```agda
  i : A → D
  j : B → D
``` 
and a homotopy
```agda
  h : (c : C) → i (f c) ≡ j (g c)

> ```

Reviewer: These are unused in the code: replace them with inline math.

or equivalently `inl ≡ inr`{.Agda}.

We therefore aim to show:

```agda
Susp≡Pushout-⊤←A→⊤ : ∀ {A} → Susp A ≡ Pushout A ⊤ (const tt) ⊤ (const tt)
```

The left and right functions are therefore trival:

```agda
Susp→Pushout-⊤←A→⊤ : ∀ {A} → Susp A → Pushout A ⊤ (const tt) ⊤ (const tt)
Susp→Pushout-⊤←A→⊤ N = inl tt
Susp→Pushout-⊤←A→⊤ S = inr tt
Susp→Pushout-⊤←A→⊤ (merid x i) = commutes x i

Pushout-⊤←A→⊤-to-Susp : ∀ {A} → Pushout A ⊤ (const tt) ⊤ (const tt) → Susp A
Pushout-⊤←A→⊤-to-Susp (inl x) = N
Pushout-⊤←A→⊤-to-Susp (inr x) = S
Pushout-⊤←A→⊤-to-Susp (commutes c i) = merid c i
```

So we then have:

```agda
Susp≡Pushout-⊤←A→⊤ = ua (Susp→Pushout-⊤←A→⊤ , is-iso→is-equiv iso-pf) where
```

<details><summary> We then verify that our two functions above are in fact
an equivalence. This is entirely `refl`{.Agda}, due to the noted
similarities in structure.</summary>
```agda
  open is-iso

  iso-pf : is-iso Susp→Pushout-⊤←A→⊤
  iso-pf .inv = Pushout-⊤←A→⊤-to-Susp 
  iso-pf .rinv (inl x) = refl
  iso-pf .rinv (inr x) = refl
  iso-pf .rinv (commutes c i) = refl
  iso-pf .linv N = refl
  iso-pf .linv S = refl
  iso-pf .linv (merid x i) = refl
```
</details>

> ## The Universal property of a pushout, via Cocones

Reviewer 2: Universal should be lowercase here.

\end{tikzcd}\]
~~~

consists of functions:
<!--
```agda
module _ (A B C D : Type) (f : C → A) (g : C → B)
  (i' : A → D) (j' : B → D) (h' : (c : C) → i' (f c) ≡ j' (g c))
  where
```
-->
```agda
  i : A → D
  j : B → D
``` 
and a homotopy
```agda
  h : (c : C) → i (f c) ≡ j (g c)
```
<!--
```agda
  i = i'
  j = j'
  h = h'
```
-->
forming:

~~~{.quiver}
\[\begin{tikzcd}
	C && B \\
	\\
	A && D
	\arrow["g", from=1-1, to=1-3]
	\arrow["f"', from=1-1, to=3-1]
	\arrow["j", from=1-3, to=3-3]
	\arrow["h"{description}, shorten <=6pt, shorten >=6pt, Rightarrow, from=3-1, to=1-3]
	\arrow["i"', from=3-1, to=3-3]
\end{tikzcd}\]
~~~

One can then note the similarities between this definition,
and our previous `Pushout`{.Agda} definition. We denote the type of
`Cocone`{.Agda}s as:

```agda
Cocone : {C A B : Type} → (f : C → A) → (g : C → B) → (D : Type) → Type
Cocone {C} {A} {B} f g D =
  Σ[ i ∈ (A → D) ]
    Σ[ j ∈ (B → D) ]
      ((c : C) → i (f c) ≡ j (g c))
```

We can then show that the canonical `Cocone`{.Agda} consisting of a `Pushout`{.Agda}
is the universal `Cocone`{.Agda}.

```agda
Pushout→E≡CoconeE : ∀ {A B C E f g} →
                    (Pushout C A f B g → E) ≡ (Cocone f g E)

> Pushout→E≡CoconeE = ua ( Pushout→Cocone , is-iso→is-equiv iso-pc ) where

Reviewer 2: We should probably remove redundant spaces here. Also, maybe this should be `Pushout-universal-cocone` or something?

Author: Hm, which spaces are you referring to? The newline could be removed, but are you also referring to others?
